=head1 NAME

aa-echo - Shows a message

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<aa-enable> [B<-D>] [B<-T> | B<-t> | B<-w> | B<-e>] I<MESSAGE...>

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-D, --double-output>

Enable double-output mode. Instead of using stdout for regular output, and
stderr for warnings and errors, everything is sent both to stdout and stderr.
This is intended to redirect stderr to a log file, so full output can be both
shown on console and logged.

=item B<-e, --error>

Show I<MESSAGE...> as an error message. A red prefix "==> ERROR: " will be
printed before the message.

=item B<-h, --help>

Show help screen and exit.

=item B<-T, --title>

Show I<MESSAGE...> as a main title. A green "==> " prefix will be printed before
the message. This is the default, if no other option is used.

=item B<-t, --title2>

Show I<MESSAGE...> as a secondary title. A blue "  -> " prefix will be printed
before the message.

=item B<-V, --version>

Show version information and exit.

=item B<-w, --warning>

Show I<MESSAGE...> as a warning. A yellow "==> WARNING: " prefix will be printed
before the message.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a little helper to easily print messages using the same color code as
other B<anopa> tools do. Note that all arguments making up I<MESSAGE> are
printed one after the other, without adding a blank space; In other words,
`aa-echo foo bar` will result in the string "==> foobar" being printed.

This is due to the way B<aa-echo>(1) processes its arguments, to allow you to
set the text color. Any argument making up I<MESSAGE> can indeed be one of:

=over

=item B<+g, +green>

Set color to green.

=item B<+b, +blue>

Set color to blue.

=item B<+y, +yellow>

Set color to yellow.

=item B<+r, +red>

Set color to red.

=item B<+n, +normal>

Reset color to "normal" aka white.

=item B<++TEXT>

To print +TEXT

=back

For example: `aa-echo -w "The file " +r "/foo/bar" +n " doesn't exist"`

=head1 BUGS

They're probably crawling somewhere in there... if you happen to catch one,
(or more) report it and I'll do my best to squash it.

=head1 REPOSITORY

You can find the latest source code of B<anopa> as well as report bugs and/or
suggest features on its GitHub repository, available at
L<https://github.com/jjk-jacky/anopa>

=head1 AUTHOR

=over

=item Olivier Brunel <jjk@jjacky.com>

=back
