=head1 NAME

aa-mount - Mount a filesystem

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<aa-mount> [B<-D>] [B<-O> I<FILE|FD>] [B<-B> | B<-M>] [B<-r> | B<-w>] [B<-d>]
[B<-t> I<FSTYPE>] [B<-o> I<OPTIONS>] I<DEVICE> I<MOUNTPOINT>

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-B, --bind>

Remount subtree specified as I<DEVICE> onto I<MOUNTPOINT>, making it available
in the two places. Note that the filesystem moun options remain the same and
cannot be changed via B<--options>, you need a second call to change options,
e.g:
    aa-mount -B olddir newdir
    aa-mount -o remount,ro,bind olddir newdir

=item B<-D, --double-output>

Enable double-output mode. Instead of using stdout for regular output, and
stderr for warnings and errors, everything is sent both to stdout and stderr.
This is intended to redirect stderr to a log file, so full output can be both
shown on console and logged.

B<Deprecation warning:> Note that this option has been deprecated and will be
removed in the next version; You should use B<--log-file> instead.

=item B<-d, --mkdir>

Create directory I<MOUNTPOINT> before doing the mount. Note that this only tries
to create the last element of the path, so all parents must already exists.

=item B<-h, --help>

Show help screen and exit.

=item B<-M, --move>

Move subtree specified as I<DEVICE> to I<MOUNTPOINT> So the content will be
atomically moved from its old location (I<DEVICE>) into the new one
(I<MOUNTPOINT>).

=item B<-O, --log-file> I<FILE|FD>

Will duplicate all output (everything written to stdout or stderr) to the given
file or file descriptor. I<FILE|FD> can either be a (previously opened for
writing) file descriptor (must be > 2), or a file which will then be opened in
append mode.

=item B<-o, --options> I<OPTIONS>

Set I<OPTIONS> as mount options to be used. They will be combined with any other
options specified.

=item B<-r, --read-only>

Mount filesystem read-only

=item B<-t, --fstype> I<FSTYPE>

Use I<FSTYPE> as type of filesystem. Note that "auto" isn't supported.

=item B<-V, --version>

Show version information and exit.

=item B<-w, --read-write>

Mount filesystem read-write.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<aa-mount>(1) mounts the specified filesystem using to the given options. It
does not read I</etc/fstab> (or any other file), and therefore always requires
both I<DEVICE> and I<MOUNTPOINT> to be specified; It also doesn't support an
option to mount all filesystems from anywhere.

This also means that when using option remount you need to specify all the
options to be set, since B<aa-mount>(1) will not read I</etc/fstab> to combine
options from there with those on the command line, as B<mount>(8) does.

Supported options are: defaults, ro, rw, bind, move, async, atime, noatime, dev,
nodev, diratime, nodiratime, dirsync, exec, noexec, mand, nomand, relatime,
norelatime, strictatime, nostrictatime, suid, nosuid, remount, sync.

Any other options will be given to the kernel as-is.

=head1 RETURN CODES

Return codes are somewhat unified inside B<anopa>. Odd return codes represent
fatal errors, and are detailled in B<anopa-rc>(1)

B<aa-mount>(1) does not have even return codes.
