=head1 NAME

aa-pivot - Pivot root directory

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<aa-pivot> [B<-D>] [B<-O> I<FILE|FD>] I<NEWROOT> I<OLDROOT>

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-D, --double-output>

Enable double-output mode. Instead of using stdout for regular output, and
stderr for warnings and errors, everything is sent both to stdout and stderr.
This is intended to redirect stderr to a log file, so full output can be both
shown on console and logged.

B<Deprecation warning:> Note that this option has been deprecated and will be
removed in the next version; You should use B<--log-file> instead.

=item B<-h, --help>

Show help screen and exit.

=item B<-O, --log-file> I<FILE|FD>

Will duplicate all output (everything written to stdout or stderr) to the given
file or file descriptor. I<FILE|FD> can either be a (previously opened for
writing) file descriptor (must be > 2), or a file which will then be opened in
append mode.

=item B<-V, --version>

Show version information and exit.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<aa-pivot>(1) moves the root filesystem of the current process to I<OLDROOT>
and makes I<NEWROOT> the new root filesystem. Since it simply calls
B<pivot_root>(2), refer to that man page for further details.

Note that B<aa-pivot>(1) doesn't change directory nor chroots, so for proper
use, you should first chdir into I<NEWROOT>, call B<aa-pivot>(1) and then chroot
into the current directory, e.g. using B<aa-chroot>(1). For example:

    cd NEWROOT
    aa-pivot . OLDROOT
    aa-chroot . COMMAND
