=head1 NAME

aa-reset - Reset status of one-shot services

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<aa-reset> [B<-D>] [B<-O> I<FILE|FD>] [B<-r> I<repodir>] [B<-A> | B<-a> |
B<-o>] [I<service...>]

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-A, --auto>

Automatic mode; See L<B<DESCRIPTION>|/DESCRIPTION> below for what will be done.

=item B<-a, --started>

Reset to "Started"

=item B<-D, --double-output>

Enable double-output mode. Instead of using stdout for regular output, and
stderr for warnings and errors, everything is sent both to stdout and stderr.
This is intended to redirect stderr to a log file, so full output can be both
shown on console and logged.

=item B<-h, --help>

Show help screen and exit.

=item B<-O, --log-file> I<FILE|FD>

Will duplicate all output (everything written to stdout or stderr) to the given
file or file descriptor. I<FILE|FD> can either be a (previously opened for
writing) file descriptor (must be > 2), or a file which will then be opened in
append mode.

=item B<-o, --stopped>

Reset to "Stopped"

=item B<-r, --repodir> I<dir>

Use I<dir> as repository directory. This is where servicedirs will be looked
for.

=item B<-V, --version>

Show version information and exit.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<aa-reset>(1) will reset the status of the specified one-shot services as
specified:

- to "Started" if B<--started> was specified,

- to "Stopped" if B<--stopped> was specified,

- or when B<--auto> was specified it will reset "Starting failed" and "Start
failed" to "Started"; and "Stopping failed" and "Stop failed" to "Stopped"

Note that a service either "Starting" or "Stopping" will never be reset.

You can use B<-> as service name to read actual service names from stdin, where
there must be one name per line.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

The following environment variables are used :

=over

=item B<AA_REPODIR>

The full path to the repository directory, unless specified via B<--repodir> If
neither the environment variable nor the option are used, defaults to
I</run/services>

=back
