=head1 NAME

aa-stage3 - Stage 3: Preparing reboot/poweroff/halt

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<aa-stage3>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<aa-stage3>(1) is an B<execline> script B<s6-svscan> will exec into when told,
e.g. via B<aa-shutdown>(1).

It will log messages into file I</var/log/boot/current>, prefixing them with a
TAI timestamp via B<s6-tai64n>, also sending them to I</dev/console>.

It stops all services via B<aa-stop>(1) using option B<--all>, and skipping
service I<uncaught-logs> to catch all possible logs as long as possible. The
B<s6-supervise> process of that service will be sent command 'x' so it simply
exits when the supervised process will.

After B<aa-stop>(1) has run, and if it exists, B<aa-stage3>(1) will execute
I</run/services/.anopa/post-stop> with B<aa-stop>(1)'s return code as
argument. This allows to e.g. open a shell if something went terribly wrong.

Note that file descriptor 3 will remain open for writing and connected to the
logger, so anything written there will be timestamped & logged.

Signal SIGTERM is then sent to (almost) all processes, using B<aa-kill>(1) with
option B<--skip>; Then SIGKILL is sent similarly.

It will then pivot root (back) into I</run/initramfs> via B<aa-pivot>(1) and
exec into I</shutdown> will the same argument it received from B<s6-svscan>, so
either "halt", "reboot" or "poweroff".

If B<aa-pivot>(1) fails, it will try to open a shell (I<sh -i>) to let you deal
with things manually. Again, fd 3 will be still be opened to the logger at this
point.
